---
id: 166
title: JavaFX on Mobile and Tablets
date: 2015-04-13T11:25:34+00:00
author: fly_lb
layout: post
guid: http://flylbblog.duapp.com/?p=166
permalink: /index.php/archives/166
categories:
  - Favorites
---
[Home](http://javafxports.org/page/home).

JavaFX on Mobile and Tablets
  
Package your JavaFX Application for deployment on iOS and Android. The true spirit of Write Once, Run Anywhere.

What is JavaFXPorts?
  
The JavaFX Platform allows you to write Java Client applications that can be deployed on desktop, laptop, embedded, mobile and tablets. JavaFXPorts informs you about the deployment on mobile and tablets.
  
JavaFX, or Java&#8217;s comeback on the client.
  
When the Java language was being developed, the original target area was the embedded and client world. For a number of reasons, Java became the top development platform for the Enterprise world. Recently, Java on the client started to gain popularity again, thanks to the JavaFX Platform. Although it is much more than &#8220;just a GUI&#8221;, JavaFX allows Java developers to create client applications with compelling user interfaces, that easily connect to back-end systems.

JavaFX on desktop, laptop and embedded systems.
  
Oracle provides downloads of the Java SDK, including JavaFX for Windows, MacOS and Linux. For the embedded world, a version of the SDK for ARM processors is made available as well. Using these SDKs, developers can build native applications for these specific Operating Systems.

JavaFX on mobile and tablets
  
mobile and tabletsToday, however, we see a rise in non-pc clients. Mobile phones and tablets are gaining market share. If a developer writes a Java Client application, he wants it to run on as many devices as possible. Apart from the official supported SDK&#8217;s, some people inside the JavaFX Community created SDK&#8217;s that allows developers to create native applications for iOS and Android. These SDK&#8217;s are so-called ports of JavaFX to iOS and Android.

The goal of JavaFXPorts is to provide information on how to develop, package and deploy JavaFX applications that target a wide range of clients.
  
One of the key strengths of Java is the WORA-paradigm: Write Once, Run Anywhere. Since Oracle does a great job documenting JavaFX on Windows, MacOS, Linux and embedded, JavaFXPorts focusses on iOS and Android.

Why is a port needed? Isn&#8217;t Java Write Once Run Anywhere?
  
Java Applications can run on any platform that have a Java Virtual Machine (JVM). While it is relatively easy to download and install a JVM on desktop and laptop systems, it still is a potential barrier. End-users first have to install a piece of software that they are not familiar with, before they can run Java Applications. A rising tendency is the bundling of the JVM and all required libraries with the Java Application. In this scenario, a developer writes a specific Java Application, and bundles it with the runtime environments for the different Operating Systems he targets. As a consequence, the end user doesn&#8217;t have to download an abstract piece of software first. He immediately downloads the self-contained application. This is not only more convenient to the end-user, in some cases it is the only option, as a JVM is not allowed on certain closed platforms. The iOS port from RoboVM and the Android port from JavaFXPorts both contain the required libraries to package your JavaFX Application with the required runtime environment. In the case of iOS, your JavaFX Application is transformed into an Objective C Application. In the Android case, your JavaFX Application is transformed into an Android Package running on top of the Dalvik VM. JavaFX contains lots of native code, in order to increase performance. This native code has been ported to iOS and Android, and the result is integrated in the SDK&#8217;s that you can download and use. Using these SDK&#8217;s, developers can package their applications into formats that are suitable for submission to the respective app stores.
  
End User experience
  
For the end user, there should be no difference when running a JavaFX Application versus running an application directly targeting either iOS or Android. The fact that the application is bundled with the required runtime makes the application a single download, that is treated similar to other applications in the app stores. The applications are converted to native applications, so they use the same low-level calls as non-JavaFX apps.